The Process Engineer position exists to support the plant's daily operations and comply with the goals of production, quality, training, yearly/monthly budget, cost reports, safety, environmental, plant start-up, plant shutdowns, regular operation, improvement projects/expansion management. 
 
Responsibilities/ Duties
Observe and monitor unit process conditions, react to and solve process problems as they occur.
Provide engineering support for shift and day personnel.
Monitor products quality; adjust the process conditions to meet quality requirements if needed.
Continuously study, understand, and update P&IDs.
Work with the Maintenance group and vendors to troubleshoot equipment issues as they occur.
Develop procedures and checklists to ensure a safe and effective operation unit.
Issue Management of Change (MOCs) or B1 Projects for process changes and improvements.
Create and compile agency reports on an as-needed basis.
Be active in Operation Clean Sweep, and ensure employees are aware of and accountable for pellet loss prevention, containment, cleanup, and disposal.
Maintain equipment in such a manner as to eliminate environmental emissions, upsets, or unscheduled shutdowns, which will result in zero non-conformances and zero emissions or releases.
Assure compliance with all company safety, health, and security programs and practices, including the use of proper PPE in required areas.
Job Requirements 
No prior experience is required, but 1- 2 years of experience in project and equipment management is preferred. Project management and equipment knowledge experience is a plus.
B.S. Degree in Chemical engineering or other related engineering majors.
Preferred Knowledge/Skills/Abilities
Working knowledge of basic heat/material balance and physical/chemical process knowledge or basic electrical/instrumentation system knowledge.
Personal Computer Skills.
Good interpersonal and communication skills.
Good business writing ability.
Must be detail-oriented.
Ability to work independently in a fast-paced environment.
Must have regular, reliable attendance as well as the ability to work outside the regular schedule as required, including working overtime for time-sensitive projects.
Demonstrate exceptional teamwork and customer service; behave professionally; treat others with respect and dignity.
Handle and manage the stress associated with the position, often changing from one task to another of a different nature.
Physical requirements include duties common to a regular office environment.
Travel to off-site locations or other business functions as needed [requirement to travel means having a valid driver’s license and being prepared to drive a motor vehicle and to fly with overnight stays required.